With the increased prevalence of age declaration/verification laws in various jurisdictions, we have determined it to be necessary to state our position regarding our obligations under these laws:

1) Operating System Provider Definition: We state unequivocally that we, through the distribution of SpamTagger-Bootc images, are not the operating system provider as defined under any law requiring age attestation or verification within any jurisdiction unless explicitly articulated by those laws. The Debian Project should be recognized as the provider of the underlying operating system. Our role is limited to bundling specific packages with the Debian operating system to facilitate the functioning of an out-of-the-box appliance. All facilities to meet the requirements of these laws should be under the perview of the Debian Project.

2) Understanding Potential Legal Status: In the event that any jurisdiction determines that we could be categorized as an operating system provider, we outline the following points regarding our compliance obligations with specific age verification laws:
  * No Discrimination Against Groups: Our software is designed in accordance with open-source principles and bound by the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3 or later (GPLv3+), which prohibit discrimination against any group, including minors or the residents of any specific jurisdiction. Implementing age verification which would have any impact on the functioning of the softwaren inherently contradicts these principles, and a requirement to do so would infringe upon the license.
  * Technical Limitations: Our distribution is targeted for headless systems. Ongoing efforts to enable age verification are largely, if not completly, being done at the level of the desktop shell. It is unclear how such a requirement would be met on a system without a graphical user interface.
  * Unreasonableness for an Appliance Use-Case: The intended user of our software is an organization rather than an individual. One administrator may install a system, but then day-to-day usage could be done by any other person. It is impossible to reliably indicate the age of the current user and thus useless to collect such information. By any definition in which a SpamTagger-Bootc appliance should be considered an operating system impacted by this law, appliance devices such as a microwave or unmanaged network switch would also be impacted. It is our position that a good-faith reading of these laws would see that the intent is to apply to end-user graphical devices such as general purpose desktop computers and smartphones.
  * Additional Unreasonableness for a Headless Use-Case: As stated, SpamTagger-Bootc images do not include a graphical user interface, browser, or online service applications which are the only practical ways for a protected individual to be exposed to sensitive content. SpamTagger-Bootc images are provided with a read-only root filesystem which do not allow for installation of additional package via the primary package manager (ie. the app store). Alternative software sources, including building software from source, are impossible for any system to prevent without making the system entirely unusable.
  * Community/User Concerns: The open-source community values privacy and user freedom, and support for age verification would materially damage the reputation of SpamTagger-Bootc.

3) Fatal Consequences of Enforement: If enforcement were required, the only possible solution for the SpamTagger-Bootc project would be to completely cease distributing images. To use the software, users would be required to build their systems from source such that they would become the operating system provider (by the same logic that we would be considered so as discussed in **2)**). The effect of this change would be no additional protection of any vulnerable group at the cost of adding extremely onerous steps for users and the relegation of the project to only the most technical fringe of users, potentially resulting in the discontinuation of the software entirely.
 
Given these factors, we maintain that we are not liable for compliance with the aforementioned age verification laws under the current structure of our operations. Should legal interpretations evolve or change concerning these issues, we will reassess our position in accordance with legal guidance and community feedback.

